In SuperMelee, there is now an extra button for each side, marked
"NET".  When you push it, you will get the net configuration dialog.
To have someone else connect to you, choose the first option.
Otherwise, edit the host name and choose "connect".  Pressing SPACE on
the resulting connection screen will cancel connection attempts.  Once
a connection has been established, the input will be listed as
"NETWORK CONTROL".  To abort an already established connection, change
the control scheme away from NETWORK CONTROL.  The game won't start
until both parties have confirmed the current setup.  If one player
moves away from the 'Battle!' button, both parties need to reconfirm.

In addition to setting the hostname, you can also configure the port
and the input delay in frames. A keypress or keyrelease will only take
effect after this many frames. The result is that while higher values
make your ship to seem to respond more sluggishly, they give the
keypress information more time to reach the remote party.  If the game
stutters, this is because it is waiting for this keypress information
to arrive, which is an indication that the input delay is too low.  As
SuperMelee runs at 24 frames per second, each frame delayed will delay
the input by about 42ms.  The delay used is the maximum of the desired
value for both parties.  The default is 0. Values lower than 4 will be
hardly noticable in terms of responsiveness.  Future versions may
automatically decide on the best value to use.
